You guys are going back to the course.
So in this lecture just to talk a little bit about some of the tools that are out there that are available
to you for making good proposals.
So Paul the last lecture we covered some of the components that are in the complex proposals.
It's all pretty standardized.
And typically when you have something that's very standardized that lots of people use There's usually
going to be a lot of tools out there.
Now if you listen to the other lecture we talked about how we do it at Sprint.
We don't actually use complex proposals so we don't actually ever put these together.
But if you wanted to make a complex proposal and you planned on using that frequently and maybe that's
something that you're using as a competitive advantage it is worth knowing that there are some tools
out there and how to acquaint yourself with them.
Now there's a bunch of them out there and I've worked with a lot of them and I only selected two of
the ones that I think probably fit most people's needs.
These are the ones that have the correct feature set have all the things you want and don't like to
add in a bunch of stuff that you don't really need.
Also the price point on these are much much better.
These are all going to be SAS tools.
So you're usually going to pay $20 a month $50 a month or $100 a month.
Some of these things get really really expensive because they know that their customers are typically
agencies and they have large budgets.
These are better for freelancers and they also have free models that you can use.
So there are two that I want to highlight.
The first one is proposed.
And this is by far the best one that I've used for creating complex proposals.
Now the reason why I like using them is one they're cheap but two they also have embedded templates.
Now a lot of you out there are going to want to start making proposals right out of the gate and you're
not going to have custom designed for your proposals will have templates that are rather good.
Good enough that they can get you kind of a quick start when you start and then later down the road
you can start working on more custom versions of your proposals.
These platforms also integrate your own custom design so when you do get your own design you can bring
it in and work with it.
OK.
So the way they propose the fireworks is pretty easy.
You put together a proposal just by logging in and creating a new proposal.
You can use a free trial if you want to.
You can also just use their free version which limits how many proposals you can have that are active.
What that means is that if you create a proposal you send it out and your client accepts it.
That proposal is no longer active say not going to charge or you're not going to have your account upgraded
because you closed a proposal and only cares about the things that are currently active meaning that
they're finished.
They're out there and people are actually using it.
So the way that you create proposals and here is you just start by creating your own proposal.
They give you they give you information templates which is really really helpful.
So what you can do is you can pick whatever information template you want and basically what that means
is that they're going to pre-load all of the text based off of one of the templates and you can pick
between really anything they have all sorts of different types really any freelancer has a template
that you can use.
I'm just here use this as an example so you can fill out your basic settings.
In this case will use example company but usually you can add your own client.
Then when you add your own client then you can keep track of all of the proposals you send to a client.
You can see the completion rates for a client and review some pretty cool analytics.
We'll cover that in second.
So just say example a company you can choose to put a proposal do or not.
The reason why you choose a proposal being do is that their system allows you to remind your clients
that it's due in a couple days.
Now typically development firms will put due dates on their proposals.
It's not really like a hard deadline.
The reason why we do that is because if I make an estimate for your application I typically only want
that to be valid for say a week or two weeks because after two weeks it might be the case that I need
to reassess what exactly is going to go into it.
Things could change.
API could change technologies could change the scope of the project could change so we try to generally
limit the validity of the estimate.
It's only useful in the case when you make an estimate.
You don't put a due date on it but someone a year or two years later comes back to you and says hey
I want to work on this project you gave me this price.
That's why we put due date so we can just use a theoretical date.
All right.
And then we can get into their proposal Ed..
So I had actually gone through this already and picked a theme and so it gave me a theme that I can
use.
And as you can see here the theme is kind of it's kind of a light and fluffy and colorful theme.
I like using that kind of design aesthetic sometimes.
Now if you wanted something to be a little bit more serious they have other themes and you can swap
those out really easily.
And if you want to just swap out a theme it's pretty easy just double click anything at it theme.
Back then it's just up here and you swamp theme they've actually have a ton of different templates that
are all pretty easy to use and they're all pretty aesthetic.
You can do a lot of modification to these themes to make it look more custom and it can help you kind
of bridge the gap between now when you're using a template generator into the future when you have your
own design.
But there are plenty of other options we can use.
So this might be something that's a little bit more serious something that you could send to a different
type client.
Really just depends really just depends what you want really depends who you're sending it to.
Just kind of depends.
So we'll swap back to the original theme.
So as you can see over here it actually has all of the different sections preloaded for you and those
actually are preloaded from the template that we chose earlier.
Think it was responsive design.
And so they've given you a lot of the components that we actually covered previously which is great.
And then if you wanted to add in anything you want you can add or remove whatever it is.
So for instance if we didn't want to have team BIOS that might be a little excessive We can hit remove.
And then remember what we said about contracts we can actually remove the contracts because otherwise
as you can see actually ends up taking a ton of different a ton of space.
So right here is the sample contract and that's entirely too heavy and too dense for a proposal.
See how long it goes.
So you can take that out pretty easily
I would go ahead and remove sample case studies of course unless you wanted to have your own sample
case study.
You know the rest of it is pretty easy so it gives you everything you would need up here.
It gives you things like remember we talked about overview or introductions or what you do.
You can use this whatever way you want.
You can change the names you change the headers and change all the text.
You could insert videos you could insert images you can do your own text and do all sorts of things
graphs tables shapes you can even add things like different signature boxes if you'd prefer that people
sign their initials.
So like right here I could choose between me and the client.
And do you guys ever use these online signature systems.
They're a little bit difficult when using a trackpad customizing them up front relatively easy.
All you really have to do is just add your own image.
You could just swap it out pretty easily so you can just hit image tab over here and then it just asks
you if you want to drag and drop anything from their library.
I've already added something so we can just use our logo to give you an example to just drag and drop
it over here.
And if you're worried about it being aligned you can add grid's
and that helps you a little bit.
OK so these work pretty much like any other editor you've seen out there.
This is just helpful because it's already preloaded with all the sections that you need.
What's also great is you can modify certain sections and then save them into your content library or
hear a content library and then use them as recyclable parts later.
Now also what's interesting about these online proposal generators is that you can do things such as
insert a video and if you insert the video now you'd think if this is a PDA if you sending to someone
how do they see the video.
Well actually this is all going to be handled online.
So when I send my proposal it goes to the client because I preloaded all their information into the
program and they open it up in their web browser.
So it's actually a web proposal that allows them to easily share it without having to send and attach
attachments.
But also it allows you to use other type of multimedia that can actually help in a lot of ways and make
it seem more seamless.
I typically like doing this because especially if you're doing work online people expect you to be web
savvy and this is something that is not only convenient but helps a lot but also makes it look like
you are tech savvy yourself.
What are the biggest actually advantages to an online proposal generator compared to like what we use
is that you can actually handle signatures online.
And that's actually kind of a big pain with us we have to send emails with attachments with the template
because remember we use a semi-formal estimate style.
And then one ends up having to happen is we have to use a separate system for making signatures here.
All you do is you send it and you can have a sign here box and then you can even pre-load your own signature
if you want to.
That's my beautiful scribble.
And then it will handle all of that for you.
That's a huge huge help.
In general though if you're making a proposal and the proposal has nothing that's binding in it you
don't usually sign proposals it's not really something that's necessary.
So if you don't have the contract attached you get to the contract in a separate stage and this is what
I suggest you do.
Then you have them sign that they don't necessarily sign the proposal in the contract you will stipulate
what is the work being done.
You'll stipulate you'll stipulate the price you'll stipulate the timeline.
Typically you just attach these estimates to the actual contract.
Now the contract will say attached in Exhibit A and Exhibit B.
These are the binding terms of the contract.
OK so I want to show you one last thing I think this is pretty cool that you can do with online proposal
generators you can do things like snapshotting with snapshotting what you can see is you can watch a
timeline of what's happening with the proposal so you can see how many times they've opened it see what
you know what sections they're stuck on or who signed it.
Who hasn't.
It's very easy to make this work with teams.
You can just click over and team and with team one ends up happening is you can send it to multiple
people.
Say you're working with a subcontractor or say you're working with a partner.
You can keep them and have them sign as well.
That's very helpful.
You can have your own law client portal over here where you can keep track of everyone keep all their
information and these are all fakes are making us as a demo.
But the last thing I think is really interesting is that you can do metrics and this is actually something
that can be rather helpful.
So what ends up happening is when you're sending proposals often and at a high rate these will keep
track of how many get closed and how many were accepted and you can use that kind of as a feedback process
to how to improve what you're doing.
What's also interesting is that you can see things like view metrics and with the metrics what you can
do is you can see how long they've been looking and you can see when they opened it and you can see
how many different people are looking at it.
That's helpful for you.
It's helpful to know if they're getting stuck.
If you know if they're not even spending a lot of time on it it's actually a great way of testing whether
or not they're shopping around the proposal because if they're not if they're looking at your proposal
but not for very long that could indicate to you that they're looking at a lot of different proposals.
This is all helpful.
This is all a lot of kind of information that can help you in many different ways.
So proposal phi is one of those ones that I think is probably the best out there right now.
I'll update the course as I find ones that are better and I can kind of refer you guys to those.
This one has a free trial you can use the free trial.
They also have a free verse.
When I suggest a software we will as a group negotiate a much lower rate.
Everyone in the group will get something like 50 to 75 percent off.
Makes it a lot easier.
One other thing as an alternative I thought also was rather interesting was one called Nusi and Nusi
is in you as I dot com This is an alternative.
Honestly guys if you're not happy with propose a fi or new C you can just Google if you just go to Google
and say proposal generator or proposal software tool.
There's a whole page of them and then just pick which one you think is right for you.
They're all pretty much the same except these two seem to have better features set for a lower price.
So with newsie it's very similar to they display everything as one long page.
You can view through.
They also make it really simple for you to propose multiple options.
That was one thing that I think that Nusi does better.
You can do an estimate and a timeline with a price and you can break it down.
But then you can also give multiple options.
So then at the very end they can pick which option they accept and tell you that they've accepted it.
It's also easy with them because all the person has to do is request more information reject or accept
and then you can then you can have an iterative process where they rejected it comes to you and they'll
give you information about why they don't like it you can change it send it back and eventually get
to the point you're accepted.
That's all very helpful for documentation.
It's all very helpful if you run into problems down the line.
OK guys so those are two really really helpful.
Easy to use tools out there.
Not going to break the bank definitely that they can help you at the very beginning.
It was a little bit of effort and a little bit of customisation you can make these really really help
in terms of sales and conversion.
It's a good stopgap from now.
And you where you need proposals but you don't want to design it yourself and you don't want to spend
a lot of time working on your copywriting to use something like this and then eventually you can become
more professional with it and more custom design more custom information.
Blessing in disguise worth if you're familiar with ninety nine designs.
That is another opportunity with you do finally want to get to the point where you want to get a proposal
designed specifically for you if you're not a designer and you don't have a designer that you want to
pay.
This is also very good option for you and in designs is a contest service so what you do is you will
give a description of what you need done.
You'll say I'm doing development work I need a proposal These are the sections that I want.
This is my logo logo.
This is my branding.
This is what I want this is what I like.
Here's an example of something that I've seen that I like.
You compile all that together and you have people compete and you'll have on average anywhere between
30 and 50 different designs presented to you.
You give them feedback and they get better and better.
And then you end up approving the one that you actually you like the designs.
I actually use in a lot of the things I do.
If you take in any Am I of course as we probably read you probably heard me talk about it before.
Very hoped for for things like Logo branding identity landing pages but also very helpful for proposals.
And as you can see there's some people that have looked for proposals or brochures or they're all very
similar and come out with pretty decent products and it's a relatively affordable option.
In the case of Nine-Nine designs I think the minimum you have to pay is $200 and if you want to pay
more you'll get more designers and you'll get more submissions.
So if you guys want me to cover Nine-Nine designs specifically just let me know.
It's something that I kind of graze upon in a lot of other lectures.
If you're in any of my other courses or you've heard of it and you've probably seen it so.
So there's a lot of easy options out there for you.
Proposals are important.
Keep that in mind but they're not.
Make or break.
It's a good idea to have a system down if whether or not it's your own custom designed proposal and
you got done at 99 designs and you had a graphic designer make or whether or not you're generating your
proposals through one of these online generators.
It's good to have a plan in place before you start sending out your proposals.
It's good to be used to this before you start bringing an actual business.
There's a lot of benefits to using these online tools.
It makes it so much simpler for you and for them and it's also very easy to appear professional.
And that's what we're mainly concerned with especially at the very beginning very beginning of your
development business when you're struggling because you don't necessarily have the case studies that
you need or the large portfolio that you will have in the future or tons and tons of custom design and
custom branding.
So these are ways that you can get around that if you want to pay you can use new designs if you want
to just do a free version or 20 bucks a month.
You can use propose the fire Nusi.
Those are great great ways of getting out of it getting all right in the next lecture of what to talk
really quickly.
Just some thoughts about how much you should customize in your proposals.
Do you have any questions just post in the group discussion.
Otherwise I'll see you in the next lecture.